Rewrite docker overview article for netcore (#11527)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/docker/intro-net-docker.md

For more information about how to install Docker, see the download page for [Docker Desktop: Community Edition](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## Docker basics

There are a few concepts you should be familiar with. The Docker client has a command line interface program you use to manage images and containers. As previously stated, you should take the time to read through the [Docker overview](https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/) documentation. 

### Images

An image is a read-only template with instructions on how to create a container. Much the time an image is based on another image, but with some customization. For example, when you create an image for your application, you would base it on an existing image that already contains the .NET Core runtime.

### Containers

> A container is a runnable instance of an image. As you build your image, you deploy your application and dependencies. Then, multiple containers can be instantiated, each isolated from one another. Each container instance has its own filesystem, memory, network interface.

Reviewer: This paragraph could be organized better. Suggestion:

> A container is a runnable instance of an image. You deploy your application in one or more containers. Each container is isolated from each other. You can view each container as a unique environment with its own filesystem, memory and network interface.

Author: I'm not sure about this. you build the image and it includes your application, you can then create multiple containers from that image. You don't "deploy" your app to a container directly.

Reviewer: I see. Feel free to edit as you see fit.

Author: I'll ping Neil Peterson, who I worked with previously. He knows a lot of the Docker/container lingo and can verify how I'm using the terminology.

### Registries

> Container registries are repositories of container images. Docker has a public registry hosted at the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) that you can use. .NET Core related images are listed at the Docker Hub.

Reviewer: I'd add that you retrieve images from repositories (or you can base your images on images in a repository).

> Container registries are repositories of container images. Docker has a public registry hosted at the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) that you can use. .NET Core related images are listed at the Docker Hub.

Author: ```suggestion
Container registries are repositories of container images.  Docker has a public registry hosted at the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) that you can use. .NET Core related images are listed at the Docker Hub. You can base your images on images from a registry.
```

The [relationship between Docker containers, images, and registries](../../standard/microservices-architecture/container-docker-introduction/docker-containers-images-registries.md) is an important concept when [architecting and building containerized applications or microservices](../../standard/microservices-architecture/architect-microservice-container-applications/index.md). This approach greatly shortens the time between development and deployment.

### Dockerfile

> A **Dockerfile** is a file that defines a set of instructions describing how to create an image. Each instruction in the **Dockerfile** creates a layer in the image. When you rebuild the image, only the layers that have changed are rebuilt. The **Dockerfile** can be distributed to others and allows them to recreate the image on their own system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **Dockerfile** is a file that defines a set of instructions that creates an image. Each instruction in the **Dockerfile** creates a layer in the image. When you rebuild the image, only the layers that have changed are rebuilt. The **Dockerfile** can be distributed to others and allows them to recreate the image on their own system.
```

## .NET Core images

Official .NET Core Docker images are available at the [Microsoft .NET Core Docker Hub repository](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core/). Each repository contains multiple images for different combinations of the .NET (SDK or Runtime) and OS that you can use. 

> Microsoft provides images that are tailored for specific scenarios. For example, the [ASP.NET Core repository](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core-aspnet/) provides images that are built for running ASP.NET Core apps in production.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I'd note some of the scenarios: development with the SDK, production with only the runtime.

## Azure services

> There are various Azure services that support containers. You can create a Docker image that has your application in it and deploy it to one of the following services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Various Azure services that support containers. You create a Docker image for your application and deploy it to one of the following services:
```

---
title: Introduction to Docker
description: This article provides an introduction and overview to Docker in the context of a .NET Core application.
ms.date: 03/20/2019
ms.custom: "mvc, seodec18"
---

# Introduction to .NET and Docker

> .NET Core can easily run in a Docker hosted container. Containers provide a lightweight way to isolate your application from the rest of the host system, sharing just the kernel, and using resources given to your application. If you're unfamiliar with Docker, it's highly recommended that you read through Docker's [overview documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.NET Core can easily run in a Docker container. Containers provide a lightweight way to isolate your application from the rest of the host system, sharing just the kernel, and using resources given to your application. If you're unfamiliar with Docker, it's highly recommended that you read through Docker's [overview documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/).
```

For more information about how to install Docker, see the download page for [Docker Desktop: Community Edition](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

## Docker basics

There are a few concepts you should be familiar with. The Docker client has a command line interface program you use to manage images and containers. As previously stated, you should take the time to read through the [Docker overview](https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/) documentation. 

### Images

> An image is a read-only template with instructions on how to create a container. Much the time an image is based on another image, but with some customization. For example, when you create an image for your application, you would base it on an existing image that already contains the .NET Core runtime.

Reviewer 2: > read-only template with instructions on how to create a container

This isn't correct IMO.  The 'template with instructions' is that part that is confusing to me.  Here is how Docker defines an image.

> Docker images are the basis of containers. An Image is an ordered collection of root filesystem changes and the corresponding execution parameters for use within a container runtime. An image typically contains a union of layered filesystems stacked on top of each other. An image does not have state and it never changes.

### Containers

A container is a runnable instance of an image. As you build your image, you deploy your application and dependencies. Then, multiple containers can be instantiated, each isolated from one another. Each container instance has its own filesystem, memory, network interface.

> ### Registries

Reviewer 2: > Container registries are repositories of container images

The wording here is conflating two different concepts to me.  Container registries and repositories are two different but related concepts.  A Registry is a collection of repositories.

Container registries are repositories of container images. You can base your images on a registry image. You can create containers directly from an image in a registry. 

> Docker has a public registry hosted at the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) that you can use. [.NET Core related images](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core/) are listed at the Docker Hub. 

Reviewer 2: This should mention MCR and be describing its purpose and how Docker Hub comes into play.  A blog article on this was published recently - https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-core-container-images-now-published-to-microsoft-container-registry/

The [relationship between Docker containers, images, and registries](../../standard/microservices-architecture/container-docker-introduction/docker-containers-images-registries.md) is an important concept when [architecting and building containerized applications or microservices](../../standard/microservices-architecture/architect-microservice-container-applications/index.md). This approach greatly shortens the time between development and deployment.

### Dockerfile

> A **Dockerfile** is a file that defines a set of instructions that creates an image. Each instruction in the **Dockerfile** creates a layer in the image. When you rebuild the image, only the layers that have changed are rebuilt. The **Dockerfile** can be distributed to others and allows them to recreate the image on their own system.

Reviewer 2: > When you rebuild the image, only the layers that have changed are rebuilt.

As a blanket statement this is not always correct.  This is really dependent on how you build the image.  To achieve this you must have the build cache from the previous build.

> A **Dockerfile** is a file that defines a set of instructions that creates an image. Each instruction in the **Dockerfile** creates a layer in the image. When you rebuild the image, only the layers that have changed are rebuilt. The **Dockerfile** can be distributed to others and allows them to recreate the image on their own system.

Reviewer 2: > The **Dockerfile** can be distributed to others and allows them to recreate the image on their own system.

While this is technically true, this is not the canonical usage.  The canonical usage is around the distribution and composition of Docker images not Dockerfiles.

## .NET Core images

> Official .NET Core Docker images are available at the [Microsoft .NET Core Docker Hub repository](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core/). Each repository contains multiple images for different combinations of the .NET (SDK or Runtime) and OS that you can use. 

Reviewer 2: Related to my previous MCR comment, the images are available on MCR.  The mechanism for discovering them is via Docker Hub.

> Microsoft provides images that are tailored for specific scenarios. For example, the [ASP.NET Core repository](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core-aspnet/) provides images that are built for running ASP.NET Core apps in production. You can use images that include only the Runtime omitting the SDK so that you can mirror a production environment.

Reviewer 2: > You can use images that include only the Runtime omitting the SDK so that you can mirror a production environment.

What is the core point trying to be conveyed here?  I find "omitting the SDK" and "mirror a production environment" to be strange.  A runtime image can be a production environment.

> Microsoft provides images that are tailored for specific scenarios. For example, the [ASP.NET Core repository](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core-aspnet/) provides images that are built for running ASP.NET Core apps in production. You can use images that include only the Runtime, omitting the SDK so that you can mirror a production environment.

Author: ```suggestion
Microsoft provides images that are tailored for specific scenarios. For example, the [ASP.NET Core repository](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-core-aspnet/) provides images that are built for running ASP.NET Core apps in production. You can use images that include only the Runtime omitting the SDK so that you can mirror a production environment.
```
